Possible  exam  questions  (1  to  9  were  explicitly  mentioned  by  the  professor,  the  rest  are  questions  of  similar  type  based  on  the  slides)

1.What  is  2D  PAGE,  how  does  it  work,  what  do  you  typically  do  after  2D  PAGE?
2.What  is  peptide  mass  fingerprinting?
3.Why  it  trypsin  so  commonly  used  for  in-gel  digestion?  What  is  its  specificity?
4.How  does  a  typical  MS  spectrum  look  like?  What  are  the  axes?  Is  intensity  always  related  to  the  abundance?
5.What  is  the  difference  between  molecular  ions  and  fragment  ions?
6.What  ionization  sources  are  used  in  proteomics?
7.What  are  multiply  charged  ions?  What  is  ESI?  What  is  MALDI?  Do  they  produce  multiply  charged  ions?
8.What  is  the  STRING  database?
9.What  is  the  difference  between  top-down,  bottom-up  and  shotgun  approaches  inproteomics?
10.What  is  western  blotting?  Why  do  we  use  it?
11.What  mass  analyzers  are  used  in  mass  spectrometry?
12.What  is  the  difference  between  positive  and  negative  ion  modes  in  MALDI  and  ESI?  How  do  we  decide  which  mode  to  use?
13.What  is  peptide  de  novo  sequencing?  What  are  the  two  main  fragmentation  methods  used?
14.What  is  the  aim  of  a  quantitative  proteomics  experiment?  Why  do  we  perform  quantitative  proteomics  experiments?  15.What  are  the  strategies  for  quantitative  proteomics?
16.What  are  SILAC  and  ICAT?  What  does  a  typical  spectrum  of  SILAC  look  like?    What  are  the  pros  and  cons  of  these  methods  compared  to  each  other?
17.How  does  label-free  quantitative  proteomics  work?  Which  are  the  two  types  of  quantification?  What  are  the  pros  and  cons  of  this  method?
18.What  is  MALDI  imaging?
19.What  is  SELDI?
20.What  are  the  experimental  approaches  to  study  protein-protein  interactions  in  vivo  and  in  vitro?
21.What  is  the  principle  of  yeast  two-hybrid  system?
22.What  is  the  difference  between  yeast  two-hybrid  system  and  mammalian  two-hybrid  system?  How  do  we  decide  which  one  to  use?
23.What  is  the  principle  of  GST  pull-down  assays?
24.What  is  the  principle  of  co-immunoprecipitation?
25.What  are  protein  arrays?  What  are  their  advantages  and  disadvantages  compared  to  other  experimental  methods  for  studying  protein-protein  interactions?
26.What  is  the  idea  behind  phage  display?
27.What  are  resonance  energy  transfer-based  techniques?  What  is  the  difference  between  FRET  and  BRET?
28.What  are  protein  complementation  assays?  What  enzymes  are  used  in  this  method?
29.Why  is  it  useful  to  perform  non-invasive  in  vivo  imaging?  What  experimental  methods  are  used?  What  is  BLI?
30.How  do  computational  methods  to  predict  protein  interactions  work?  What  are  the  databases  used?  

Key  abbreviations
2D-PAGE    Two-dimensional  polyacrylamide  gel  electrophoresis
BLI    Bioluminescence  imaging
BRET    Bioluminescence  resonance  energy  transfer
CID    Collision-induced  dissociation
DIGE    Difference  gel  electrophoresis
ELISA    Enzyme-linked  immuno  sorbent  assay
ESI    Electrospray  ionization
ETD    Electron-transfer  dissociation
FRET    Fluorescence  resonance  energy  transfer
GC Gel  chromatography
HPLC    High-performance  liquid  chromatography
ICAT    Isotope-coded  affinity  tags
iTRAQ    Isobaric  tag  for  relative  and  absolute  quantification
MALDI    Matrix-assisted  laser  desorption/ionization
MSMass  spectrometry
MS/MS    Tandem  mass  spectrometry
PTM    Post-translational  modification
PCA    Protein-fragment  complementation  assay
QD-BRET    Quantum  dot/BRET  (or  Self-illuminating  quantum  dots) 
Q-TOF    Quadrupole  time-of-flight  mass  spectrometry
SDS-PAGE    Sodium  dodecyl  sulfate  polyacrylamide  gel  electrophoresis
SELDI    Surface-enhanced  laser  desorption/ionization
SILAC    Stable  isotope  labeling  with  amino  acids  in  cell  culture
TOF    Time-of-flight  mass  spectrometry
IEF    Isoelectric  focusing



During presentatin:
- ionisation (step of Mass spectrometry)
- 2d gel electrophoresys (main limitation)
- PPi methods (I started with 2 yeast hybrib and she asked me the limitations of this tenchnic)
- Common steps after 2D-PAGE. Previous steps before performing MS (spot cutting, digestion…)
- PHAGE display technology
- shotgun proteomics (diff with bottom-up)
- mass fingerprinting
- FRET BRET (energy transfer)
- 
limitations!


SILAC  and  ICAT?
iTRAQ 



