modeller steps
statistical tests to validate what is true(student, gaussian, puasson.... )
several words about BLAST alg

1) your definition of bioinformatics
	science of problem solving aplied to the big data of biology

2) technological advancements that allowed biology to become Big Science. Critical consequences.
	high troughtput sequencing, need of informatics system to manage the data and faster more imprecise algorithm

3) open problems of the post genomic era
	-data production overpass storage and computational power
	-Genome assembly (de novo assembly
	-Genome annotation
	-Finding the alternative splicing variants
	-Variations in proteins
	-Protein structural and functional annotation
	-Annotating the different SNPs
	-chromatin dinamics 
	-cel symulation

4) how to cope with cell complexity. List molecules that can be detected by sequencing in a cell wide mode. -----------------------

	--functional genomics(merge data)
	Cellular component
	Biological process
	Molecular function


5) given a sequence of symbols, what is the meaning of annotation.
	it gives explains how they works and what thay do

6) methods for protein annotation
	ab initio
	threading
	homology 
	
7) most important database and its role in annotation
	ensamble: gene
	uniprot :annotation 
	pdb: 3d
	pfam: family characterization

8) why we distinguish the problem of structural annotation from sequence annotation
	sequence: genomics or trascription\maturation
	structure: chemical\fisiological function
	
9) protein sequence, structure and function. Reference database and statistical analysis
	seq: uniprot -- blast
	structure: pdb  --- modeller
	function : uniprot, pfam  --- 3d visualizer (rasmol chimera)

10) rules for sequence comparison-------------------------------------------------------------
	

11) local and global alignment algorithms
	local try to maximixe the aligned zone(with or without gaps) needleman wunsch
	global maximize the alignment score even interrupting it and leaving end gaps	smith waterman

12) database search. Logic of the algorithm
	basic one is to divide the query in 'words' and check for them 

13) extreme value statistics: principal most relevant outcomes
	substitution matrix: the P-value is distribuitrd as a extreme value and allignment too

14) protein universe and uniportKB
	it is the central hub for protein knowledge with all the main characteristics and links for other, more specific, protein database
	
15) evolution did it (I don’t remember how this question goes on.. there are at least other 2 questions missing next to this one! If you remember which ones they were, please write them)
	to say that sequence identity implies structural idenity we need 30% ID and at least 250 residues

16) flow chart of modeller
	-blast
	-search tremplate
	-search lecterature+
	-model
	-stability (ramachandra )
	-compare (active site ecc)
	
17) statistical validation of building by homology
	using ramachandra plot and diedral angle	
	
18) experiments/theory for data driven biology ------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
19) why epigenomics will take over
	-it highly impact all the biological fiel: both proteomics and genomics cant be fully understand in not taken into account
	-bottom up aproac

20) when a protein is a protein?
when it has enought heterogenity and a secondary structure stable enoght to wistand polar solvent and perturbation
